---
layout: archive
title: "CV"
permalink: /cv/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---

{% include base_path %}

Education
======
<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; align-items: center;">
  <div>
    <strong>University of Science and Technology of China (USTC), Anhui, China</strong><br>
    <em>M.S. in Control Science and Engineering</em>
  </div>
  <div style="text-align: right;">
    09.2022 - 06.2025<br>
    <em>GPA: 3.63/4.3, Average Score: 86.67</em>
  </div>
</div>

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; align-items: center;">
  <div>
    <strong>Shijiazhuang Tiedao University (STDU), Hebei, China</strong><br>
    <em>B.E. in Information Engineering</em>
  </div>
  <div style="text-align: right;">
    09.2018 - 06.2022<br>
    <em>GPA: 3.56/4.0, Average Score: 86.65</em>
  </div>
</div>
<hr style="border: none; border-top: 1px solid #ccc; margin: 10px 0;">


Research Interests
======
* 3D Reconstruction.
* Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM).
* Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV).
<hr style="border: none; border-top: 1px solid #ccc; margin: 10px 0;">
  
Publications & Patents
======
_**Publications**_

* __Fan, Z.__, Yifan Z., Ziyu C., Biao Y., & Hui Z.(2024). DYGS: Dense Gaussian Map Reconstruction with Visual SLAM in Dynamic Environments. _IEEE Sensors Journal_ (under review).
* __Fan, Z.__, Ziyu C., Chunmao J., Liwei X., Shijin Z., Biao Y., & Hui Z.(2024). SLM-SLAM: A Visual SLAM System Based on Segmented Large-scale Model in Dynamic Scenes and Zero-shot Conditions. _Measurement Science and Technology_ (accept).
* __Fan, Z.__, Jiakun X., Zhongyu W., Peichen L., Shujun Q., & Lei H.(2021). Image classification method based on improved KNN algorithm. _Journal of physics: Conference series_ (Vol. 1930, No. 1, p. 012009).

_**Patents**_

* __Fan Z.__, Chunjiang L., Peichen L., Zijie C., Zhonggao Li, Gesheng W., Xiaoyang Z., & Zhanfeng G.(2021). Railway Gondola Car Unloading Equipment. CN112124996B, field August 31, 2020, and issured November 05, 2021.
* __Fan Z.__, Haishuo L, Shibo W., Xiaolong S., Zifan Z., & Haiming J.(2022). A Small Unmanned Ground Vehicle Used for Rail Tunnel Inspection. CN216783498U, field March 34, 2022, and issured June 21, 2022.
<hr style="border: none; border-top: 1px solid #ccc; margin: 10px 0;">

Research Experience
======
* ***Research on 3D Reconstruction Method of Visual SLAM Based on Radiance Field (Master Thesis)***, 12.2023 - Present
  * **Overview:** Aiming at the problem that traditional visual SLAM is difficult to provide high-quality scene map and Colmap has poor real-time performance, a visual SLAM system based on 3DGS radiance fields is developed for 3D scene reconstruction tasks.
  * Studied the application of 3DGS radiance field as a map representation for synthesizing new viewpoints and reconstructing high-quality scenes.
  * Optimized camera pose and local map jointly to enhance the system’s positioning and mapping performance.
  * Transform the 3DGS radiation field map generated by the visual SLAM system into mesh for facilitating downstream applications such as robotics. (Future Work)

* ***Data-driven Virtual Simulation and Testing (High-fidelity Scene Reconstruction, Core Member)***, 01.2023 - Present
  * **Overview:** Developed a high-fidelity 3D virtual scene to address the high cost and risk of autonomous driving field tests. This project focuses on enhancing the authenticity and reliability of test scenarios.
  * Used UGV and UAV equipped with radar and camera to obtain the Science Island dataset, providing comprehensive real-world data.
  * Applied SLAM, NeRF, and 3DGS techniques for high-fidelity scene reconstruction, achieving realistic and accurate virtual environments.
  * Edited the scene model and configured the sensor and weather systems based on the UE5 engine, improving the testing conditions for autonomous systems.


    
* ***Research and Design of Wide-range Autonomous Positioning System for UGV Facing Wild Unstructured Environment (Bachelor Thesis)***, 09.2021 – 06.2022
  * **Overview:** Aiming at the problem that the unmanned vehicle is difficult to locate itself in the complex field environment, the SLAM technology using lidar and vision fusion was studied, and a small unmanned vehicle platform was independently built for experimental verification.
  * Built a small unmanned vehicle platform using NVIDIA Jetson Nano as the main control unit, facilitating data acquisition and processing.
  * Designed a positioning and mapping system using RTAB-Map, significantly improving localization accuracy in unstructured environments.
  * Conducted experiments with various sensors on the self-built platform, analyzing the performance of proposed algorithms in diverse field scenarios.

 
* ***Research on Multi-functional Sand Removal Unmanned Vehicle for Railway Applications (Team Leader)***, 01.2021 - 01.2022
  * **Overview:** Developed a road-railway dual-purpose UGV to clean railway tracks to solve the problem of wind-blown sand accumulation that affects train safety in western China.
  * Designed a road-railway dual-use unmanned vehicle chassis and bucket wheel type sand removal device, which increased operational efficiency by 30%.
  * Utilized STM32 chip and various sensors to collect environmental data, enhancing real-time monitoring capabilities.
  * Implemented MQTT protocol for uploading environmental data to a cloud platform, realizing data visualization to facilitate analysis.

* ***Research on Small Intelligent Inspection Vehicle for Railway Track Maintenance (Team Leader)***, 06.2020 - 06.2021
  * **Overview:** Designed and built a small UGV to address the high cost and heavy labor involved in traditional railway track inspection and maintenance.
  * Implemented a small target detection algorithm based on improved YOLOv5 to detect bolt states and static foreign objects, and the detection accuracy is 98.5%.
  * Developed a multi-target tracking algorithm using DeepSort for detecting dynamic foreign object invasion.
  * Applied GMapping for autonomous positioning and environment modeling, enhancing location precision in complex environments.
<hr style="border: none; border-top: 1px solid #ccc; margin: 10px 0;">
  

Leadership & Social Activities
======
- **Student Member, IEEE.** *(05.2024 - Present)*
- **Student Leader, Science and Technology Innovation Space for College Students.** *(09.2020 - 06.2022)*
- **Excellent Student, Jiangsu Summer School for Graduate Students.** *(07.2021 - 08.2021)*
- **Teaching Assistant, Algorithms and Data Structures.** *(09.2020 - 12.2020)*
- **Teaching Assistant, Microcontroller Technology and Application.** *(02.2020 - 06.2020)*
<hr style="border: none; border-top: 1px solid #ccc; margin: 10px 0;">


Honors & Awards
======
- **Outstanding Graduate** *(2022)* - Top 1%
- **Excellent Graduation Thesis** *(2022)* - Top 3%
- **First Class Academic Scholarship** *(2022)*
- **Second Class Academic Scholarship** *(2023)*
- **First Class Scholarship** *(2020, 2022)* - Top 3%
- **Second Class Scholarship** *(2019, 2021)* - Top 5%
- **First Prize of Computer Skills Application Competition** *(2021)* - Top 5%
- **Second Prize of Conference on Undergraduate Innovation and Entrepreneurship** *(2021)* - Top 5%
- **Third Prize of the 14th Chinese Collegiate Computing Competition** *(2021)* - Top 10%
- **First Prize of College Students Engineering Training Comprehensive Ability Competition** *(2020)* - Top 10%
- **Second Prize of The Electric Design Match** *(2020)* - Top 10%
<hr style="border: none; border-top: 1px solid #ccc; margin: 10px 0;">


Skills
======
- **Language:** Chinese (Native), English (Second Language)
- **Software:** C, C++, Python, HTML, ROS, Matlab, UE5
<hr style="border: none; border-top: 1px solid #ccc; margin: 10px 0;">
